content/modules/ROOT/pages/01-installing-pcp.adoc, before:

== Installing the PCP tools

Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) is a suite of tools, services, and libraries
for collecting, visualizing, storing, and analyzing system-level
performance measurements.

First step is to install the PCP packages using dnf:

[source,bash,run]
----
dnf install -y pcp-zeroconf
----

This RPM includes a number of PCP-related tools as dependencies to the
main pcp package. This is prefered in the case that you need to do
deeper performance analysis.

Next, start and enable the *PCP’s Collector Daemon (PMCD)* to start
collecting system performance data:

[source,bash,run]
----
systemctl enable --now pmcd
----

Check the status of the enabled PMCD service:

[source,bash,run]
----
systemctl status pmcd --no-pager
----

As shown in the output snippet above, verify that your system’s pmcd
service is active and running.

Finally, look at the basic system information provided by the PCP
command:

[source,bash,run]
----
pcp
----

The output shows the two primary underlying components of PCP : *PCP’s
Collector Daemon (PMCD)* which organizes, collects, manages metric
information, and the *Performance Metric Domain Agents (PMDAs)* which
knows how to gather information for different services.

Commit message:

Update instances configuration to increase CPU cores from 1 to 2, add new images for htop, metrics, and view metrics, and enhance PCP documentation with additional service setup details and improved readability.

content/modules/ROOT/pages/01-installing-pcp.adoc, after:

== Installing the PCP tools

Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) is a suite of tools, services, and libraries
for collecting, visualizing, storing, and analyzing system-level
performance measurements.

First step is to install the PCP packages using dnf:

[source,bash,run]
----
dnf install -y pcp-zeroconf
----

This RPM includes a number of PCP-related tools as dependencies to the
main pcp package. This is preferred in the case that you need to do
deeper performance analysis.

Next, start and enable the *PCP’s Collector Daemon (PMCD)* to start
collecting system performance data:

[source,bash,run]
----
systemctl enable --now pmcd
----

Check the status of the enabled PMCD service:

[source,bash,run]
----
systemctl status pmcd --no-pager
----

As shown in the output snippet above, verify that your system’s pmcd
service is active and running.

We'll need to enable the `+pmlogger+` service. Using the pmlogger tool, you can:

- Create the archived logs of selected metrics on the system
- Specify which metrics are recorded on the system and how often

Let's enable the `+pmlogger+` service.

[source,bash,run]
----
systemctl enable --now pmlogger
----


Finally, look at the basic system information provided by the PCP
command:

[source,bash,run]
----
pcp
----

The output shows the two primary underlying components of PCP : *PCP’s
Collector Daemon (PMCD)* which organizes, collects, manages metric
information, and the *Performance Metric Domain Agents (PMDAs)* which
knows how to gather information for different services.
