content/modules/ROOT/pages/03-pcp-web-console.adoc, before:

:imagesdir: ../assets/images

== Utilizing PCP with the Web Console

One of the easiest ways to observe the performance status of a RHEL server is via the Web Console, based on the upstream Cockpit project.

We'll need to enable the `+pmlogger+` service. Using the pmlogger tool, you can:

- Create the archived logs of selected metrics on the system
- Specify which metrics are recorded on the system and how often

Let's enable the `+pmlogger+` service.

[source,bash,run]
----
systemctl enable --now pmlogger
----

Click on the `+RHEL Webconsole+` tab.

.web console
image::webconsole.png[web console]

Log into the Web Console with the following credentials.

Username

[source,bash]
----
rhel
----

Password

[source,js,subs="+macros,+attributes",role=execute]
----
{bastion_ssh_password}
----

Give yourself `+administrative access+` by clicking on
`+Turn on administrative access+`.

On the dashboard, you will see the CPU and Memory usage of your system
update live. To dive in deeper, you can click on
`+View metrics and history+`

The services, processes, and disks are hyperlinks that take you either
to more detailed graphics, the appropriate web console screen, or even
the system logs. This allows for a more unified troubleshooting
experience.

In the final step, you will start several processes and utilize the PCP
suite to observe its impact on system resources.

Commit message:

Update instances configuration to increase CPU cores from 1 to 2, add new images for htop, metrics, and view metrics, and enhance PCP documentation with additional service setup details and improved readability.

content/modules/ROOT/pages/03-pcp-web-console.adoc, after:

:imagesdir: ../assets/images

== Utilizing PCP with the Web Console

One of the easiest ways to observe the performance status of a RHEL server is via the Web Console, based on the upstream Cockpit project.

Click on the `+RHEL Webconsole+` tab.

.web console
image::webconsole.png[web console]

Log into the Web Console with the following credentials.

Username

[source,js]
----
rhel
----

Password

[source,js,subs="+macros,+attributes",role=execute]
----
{bastion_ssh_password}
----

Give yourself `+administrative access+` by clicking on
`+Turn on administrative access+`.

On the dashboard, you will see the CPU and Memory usage of your system
update live. To dive in deeper, you can click on
`+View metrics and history+`

.View metrics and history
image::view_metrics.png[view metrics and history]

The services, processes, and disks are hyperlinks that take you either to more detailed graphics, the appropriate web console screen, or even the system logs. This allows for a more unified troubleshooting experience.

.Metrics
image::metrics.png[metrics]

In the final step, you will start several processes and utilize the PCP
suite to observe its impact on system resources.
