content/modules/ROOT/pages/04-troubleshooting-cpu.adoc, before:

== Troubleshooting high CPU usage

Over the course of this lab, you have enabled the PCP tools for CLI and web UI utilization. Now, you will put those pieces together to see what happens to a system while CPU constrained.

In the background, the server has kicked off a process that is putting a heavy strain on the CPUs. You will first use the CLI to identify this process then also with the web console.

Let’s launch a process that will generate a heavy strain on the CPUs. In the `+>_ terminal+`, run the following:

[source,bash,run]
----
nohup /usr/bin/stress-ng --cpu 2 > stress.out 2> stress.err < /dev/null & disown
----

One of the quickest ways to ascertain the root of the problem is with a
live view of performance in a top-like interface:

[source,bash,run]
----
pcp htop
----

.pcp htop
image::htop_cli.png[pcp htop]

Note that the CPUs are reporting almost 100%. The table below will show the heaviest processes in terms of CPU. Once you note the PID (Process Identifier) of the top process, use CTRL+C to exit.

With this PID, you can investigate further or utilize it in a kill command. However, before you kill the runaway process, switch to the `+RHEL Webconsole+` tab.

You will notice on the `+Metrics and History+` screen that the live performance graphs have indicated a CPU spike.

.Metrics and History
image::metrics_and_history.png[metrics and history]

You are able to see when the spike began as well as click on the `+>+` to gain additional insights.

.Metrics and History Detail
image::metrics_and_history_detail.png[metrics and history detail]

We can take a closer look at the `+Load+` event by clicking on it.

.Click on Load
.Click on `+View detailed logs+`

.Logs
image::investigate_logs.png[investigate logs]

Click on `+View all logs+` to see the log entries and time stamps that help you walk back to what caused the spike to begin. Notice that the `+stress-ng+` process has been identified as the root cause.

This lab barely scratches the surface of what’s available in the PCP command line tools. For more information please visit our documentation:
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/gu-in/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/monitoring_and_managing_system_status_and_performance/setting-up-pcp_monitoring-and-managing-system-status-and-performance#doc-wrapper[Monitoring
and managing system status and performance]

Commit message:

Add detailed logs image and update documentation for improved clarity

content/modules/ROOT/pages/04-troubleshooting-cpu.adoc, after:

== Troubleshooting high CPU usage

Over the course of this lab, you have enabled the PCP tools for CLI and web UI utilization. Now, you will put those pieces together to see what happens to a system while CPU constrained.

In the background, the server has kicked off a process that is putting a heavy strain on the CPUs. You will first use the CLI to identify this process then also with the web console.

Let’s launch a process that will generate a heavy strain on the CPUs. In the `+>_ terminal+`, run the following:

[source,bash,run]
----
nohup /usr/bin/stress-ng --cpu 2 > stress.out 2> stress.err < /dev/null & disown
----

One of the quickest ways to ascertain the root of the problem is with a
live view of performance in a top-like interface:

[source,bash,run]
----
pcp htop
----

.pcp htop
image::htop_cli.png[pcp htop]

Note that the CPUs are reporting almost 100%. The table below will show the heaviest processes in terms of CPU. Once you note the PID (Process Identifier) of the top process, use CTRL+C to exit.

With this PID, you can investigate further or utilize it in a kill command. However, before you kill the runaway process, switch to the `+RHEL Webconsole+` tab.

You will notice on the `+Metrics and History+` screen that the live performance graphs have indicated a CPU spike.

.Metrics and History
image::metrics_and_history.png[metrics and history]

You are able to see when the spike began as well as click on the `+>+` to gain additional insights.

.Metrics and History Detail
image::metrics_and_history_detail.png[metrics and history detail]

We can take a closer look at the `+Load+` event by clicking on it.

.Click on Load
.Click on `+View detailed logs+`

.Logs
image::investigate_logs.png[investigate logs]

Click on `+View detailed logs+` to see the log entries and time stamps that help you walk back to what caused the spike to begin. Notice that the `+stress-ng+` process has been identified as the root cause.

.Logs
image::investigate_logs_detail.png[investigate logs detail]

This lab barely scratches the surface of what’s available in the PCP command line tools. For more information please visit our documentation:
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/gu-in/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/monitoring_and_managing_system_status_and_performance/setting-up-pcp_monitoring-and-managing-system-status-and-performance#doc-wrapper[Monitoring
and managing system status and performance]
